# Chess-Library

The following project is a chess game library (implemented in eclipse IDE) which consists of supporting basic gameplay (movement/initial configuration) as well as determining which player may be in check (white or black pieces) and weather a player is in checkmate. Aside from supporting the chess game library from the back end, a static GUI was implemented using Swing as well (the manual pdf shows how testing was done for the static GUI).

Implementation of the board, pieces and movement of the pieces can be found in the src/Main folder. The Chess_Board class is the overarching class that supports the initial setup of the board by creating a 2D array of space objects (the space class can hold a specific piece and also move/remove a piece from a space object). Furthermore, the player object is in place to help keep track of where a player’s pieces are on the board at any given time which aides in checking if a player is in check and if the player can make a specific valid move.  The piece class is setup to support basic functionality of a piece such as movement and determining location. Moreover, the pawn, rook, knight, bishop, queen and king classes all extend the piece class but overwrite the movement method according to how the specific piece moves.

Throughout the files found in the src/Main folder there are numerous lines of code commented out. This is in part because initially during development brute force methods were used to write the movement functions for each piece. However, after all pieces were moving correctly, code for these pieces was refactored. The pawn class initially had movement methods for both the white and black piece perspective which was later refactored to one method regardless of the color of the piece. Similarly, the queen had sperate movement methods initially but then the movement methods from the rook and bishop were refactored for the queen to use these methods. 
JUnit testing framework was used to make sure that all classes and pieces were implemented correctly and corresponded to correct gameplay according to the rules of chess. All the tests from the pieces to the board class can be found at the following path src/tests.

